# `primelendrow`

Welcome to your new `primelendrow` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `primelendrow`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd primelendrow/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
Hello, LendRow is a peer to peer lending platform, which directly impacts the sustainable development goal number 8, through financial access, debt management, and debt recovery. Along with its tagline, which is to connect with creditors and debtors around you.
The issues which LendRow aims to address are as follows;
first is the financial access, since over 70% of lowers income individuals still lacks access to traditional banking services,
next is debt management, where people are often trapped in an infinite cycle of debt,
and last is debt recovery, where predatory or aggressive lending contributes to the number of defaults which affects the image of the lending ecosystem.
The target market of Lendrow are individual lenders or mirco-finance institutions who are actively looking for investment opportunities and also underserved individuals or small business owners needing financial support.
The LendRow core functional components are as follows;
KYC Verification System - The LendRow Verification page is for identity validation, where a user uploads a valid ID and updates their data with valid information, the LendRow administration will review that data and will decide whether to verify or reject the user.






The LendRow Virtual Wallet system is for digital wallet transactions which include cash in and cash out transactions, each will generate transaction records for history tracking. The LendRow Lender's page, where a lender sets up a lending information and their digital funds will be deducted once they successfully created and posted the terms.

The LendRow Borrower's page, where users browse through a number of posted lending information and can apply for funding opportunity, once they applied, an application  record will be generated and the lender will receive the notification, the lender can either approve or reject the application based on the applicants credit history, once approved, a lending agreement will be generated which contains a lending digital record.


The LendRow payment page, once the lender disburses the funds to the applicant, a payment record will be generated, the borrower can use the payment page to pay their debt in a monthly installments with their digital money, the borrower also cannot apply for another debt and can only apply again once the previous debt are fully paid, a payment transaction record will also be generated for every payment made and it will also generate printable closure agreement with same format for the lending agreement.



The finished version of lendrow was created using PHP as a server side language, HTML, CSS, and JAVASCRIPT(Ajax/JQuery) are used for the client side. LendRow's current architecture and its enhanced version is transitioned and currently being built using React JS as a frontend interface, the backend architecture was previously built using Motoko and was now transferred to Rust and will soon be deployed under Internet Computer Protocol or ICP. LendRow is now fully on-chain based transactions along with its most secure System Access Authentication using NFID and Internet Identity. The LendRow blockchain project is currently 20% done.
The Solutions:
The LendRow solution to Financial Access, is by providing individual lenders and micro-finance institutions a common ground to directly lend and earn money by granting funding or investment opportunities to underserved individuals and small business owners without the need for traditional intermediary. People can borrow quickly and can repay quickly with flexible loan amounts with low interest rates.
The LendRow solution to Debt Management, is by minimizing or preventing borrowers entirely from acquiring multiple concurrent debts with One Debt At A Time Policy, and with credit history based borrowing which helps lenders know their applicants history.
The LendRow solution to Debt Recovery, is by LendRow-guaranteed, collateral-based, and credit score-based lending which help protect lenders from defaults while also safeguarding borrowers from aggressive and predatory lending practices.

